# Plantleafdisease

In India about 70% of the population relies on agriculture. Identification of the plant diseasesisimportant in order to prevent the losses within the yield. It's terribly troublesome to observetheplant diseases manually. It needs tremendous quantity of within the plant diseases, and conjointlyneed the excessive time interval. Hence, machine learning labour, expertize models canbeemployed for the detection of plant diseases. In this project, we have described the techniqueforthe detection of plant diseases with the help of their leaves pictures. Machine learningis asubpart of artificial intelligence which works automatically or give instructions to do a particulartask. The main aim of machine learning is to understand the training data and fit that trainingdata into models that should be useful to the people. So it can assist in good decisions makingand predicting the correct output using the large amount of training data. The colour of leaves, amount of damage to leaves, area of the leaf, texture parameters areusedfor classification. In this project we have analyzed different image parameters or featurestoidentifying different plant leaves diseases to achieve the best accuracy. Previously plant diseasedetection is done by visual inspection of the leaves or some chemical processes by experts. Fordoing so, a large team of experts as well as continuous observation of plant is needed, whichcosts high when we do with largefarms. In such conditions, the recommended systemprovesto be helpful in monitoring large fields of crops. Automatic detection of the diseases bysimplyseeing the symptoms on the plant leaves makes it easier as well as cheaper. The proposed solution for plant disease detection is computationally less expensive andrequiresless time for prediction than other deep learning based approaches since it uses statistical
machine learning.The past scenario for plant disease detection involved direct eye observation, remembering the particular set of disease as per the climate, season etc. These methods wereindeed inaccurate and very time consuming. The current methods of plant disease detectioninvolved various laboratory tests, skilled people, well equipped laboratories etc. These thingsarenot available everywhere especially in remote areas. Detection of disease throughsomeautomatic technique is helpful because it reduces an oversized work of watching in huge farmsof crops, and at terribly early stage itself it detects the symptoms of diseases means that aftertheyseem on plant leaves.

There are several ways to detect plant pathologies. Some diseases do not have anyvisiblesymptoms, or the effect becomes noticeable too late to act, and in those situations, asophisticated analysis is obligatory. However, most diseases generate some kind of manifestation in the visible spectrum, sothenaked eye examination of a trained professional is the prime technique adopted in practiceforplant disease detection. Variations in symptoms indicated by diseased plants may leadtoanimproper diagnosis since amateur gardeners and hobbyists could have more difficultiesdetermining it than a professional plant pathologist. An automated systemdesignedtohelpidentify plant diseases by the plant’s appearance and visualsymptoms could be of great helptoamateurs in the gardening process and also trained professionals as a verification systemindisease diagnostics. Advances in computer vision present an opportunity to expand and enhance the practiceofprecise plant protection and extend the market of computer vision applications in the fieldofprecision agriculture. The problem of efficient plant disease detection is closely relatedtotheproblems of sustainable agriculture andclimate change In India, Farmers have a great diversityofcrops. Various pathogens are present in the environment which severely affects the crops andthesoil in which the plant is planted, thereby affecting the production of crops,Various diseaseareobserved on the plants and crops .The main identification of the affected plant or cropareitsleaves.The various colored spots and patterns on the leaf are very useful indetecting the disease. On the other hand, deep architectures like CNN (Convolutional Neural Networks) have alsobeenheavily used in studies that are concerned with plant disease detection. VGG-19 is a convolutional neural network that is trained on more than a million images fromtheImageNet database. The network is 19 layers deep and can classify images into 1000object
categories, such as keyboard, mouse, pencil and many animals. As a result, the networkhaslearned rich feature representations for a wide range of images.
